README.md, before:

# Argonaut Blazing Render (BRender)

This is the source code to version 1.1.2 of the BRender engine by Argonaut Software/Argonaut Games, from approximately 1995/09/07, upgraded to work with CMake.

The CMake support isn't exactly complete, however. Some of the automation done in the old build system (such as running `h2inc` on certain header files) remain unimplemented. the `TOOLS` and `DOSIO` backend for BRender have been completely removed (for now). Despite all of that, it is *completely buildable*.

This is intended as a basic release to let others build on, and more info on how to build and use this code will be added later.

See also [the release of a 1997 version of the BRender engine](https://github.com/foone/BRender-1997) and [version v1.3.2](https://github.com/foone/BRender-v1.3.2).

## Source of this code

This code was used (with minor modifications) to build the game Privateer 2: The Darkening by Electronic Arts. No Privater 2 code is included in this release. 

## Approval to open source this software

Approval to open source this was given in an email from Jez San, former CEO of Argonaut. 

## Credits

| Role          | Name           | 
| ------------- | -------------  |
| Programming   | `Sam Littlewood` `Dan Piponi` `Simon Everett` `Philip Pratt` |
| Ports         | `Simon Everett` `Philip Pratt` `Patrick Buckland` `Zareh Johannes`  `Anthony Savva` `Stainless Software Ltd`    |
| Testing       | `Philip Pratt`  |
| Project Management | `Stefano Zammattio` |
| Technical Reference Manual | `Crosbie Fitch` `Philip Pratt` |
| Tutorial & Installation Guides | `Robbie McQuaid` | 
| Marketing | `Paul Ayscough` `Mitra Faulkner` |
| Sales | `Edwin Masterson` |
| Artwork| `Michel Bowes` |
| Technical Support | `Neela Dass` `Tony Roberts` `John Gay` `Jon Wolff` |
| With Thanks to | `Pete Warnes` `Mike Day` `Tim Gummer` `Vinay Gupta` `Marcia Petterson` `Jez San` | 

(From the 1996 Technical Reference Manual. More names will be added if they are uncovered)

The open sourcing of this version was done by Scott Hanselman and Foone Turing, with help from an anonymous contributor. 

## License

This is released under the MIT license.


Copyright (c) 1995 Argonaut Software Limited 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Translate most of the assembly over to C (and extras)
This is a big commit because I was too lazy to split it into multiple
because of how many changes there are.

This obviously translates most of the assembly over to C. Keep in mind
that most of the translation is pretty direct, so expect to see a lot of
jank in the code.

This also reverts some Hawkeye specific changes, mostly to maintain
purity with the original source.

This also fixes a bug in the memory allocation scheme they use for
resources which screws up on any architecture that's not 32-bit,
therefore allowing you to run this on x86_64.

Some of the assembly code currently remains untranslated, which I will
get around it in the next few commits.

Signed-off-by: bjrkk <cfxqpkjq@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Argonaut Blazing Render (BRender)

This is the source code to version 1.1.2 of the BRender engine by Argonaut Software/Argonaut Games, from approximately 1995/09/07, but modified to be cross-platform. Meant to (eventually) be used with 3DMMForever.

This is intended as a basic release to let others build on, and more info on how to build and use this code will be added later.

See also [the release of a 1997 version of the BRender engine](https://github.com/foone/BRender-1997) and [version v1.3.2](https://github.com/foone/BRender-v1.3.2).

## Source of this code

This code was used (with minor modifications) to build the game Privateer 2: The Darkening by Electronic Arts. No Privater 2 code is included in this release.

[crocguy0688s modification of BRender](https://github.com/crocguy0688/CrocDE-BRender) provided a good reference for how some of the `memloops.asm` routines should be translated over to C.

## Approval to open source this software

Approval to open source this was given in an email from Jez San, former CEO of Argonaut. 

## Credits

| Role          | Name           | 
| ------------- | -------------  |
| Programming   | `Sam Littlewood` `Dan Piponi` `Simon Everett` `Philip Pratt` |
| Ports         | `Simon Everett` `Philip Pratt` `Patrick Buckland` `Zareh Johannes`  `Anthony Savva` `Stainless Software Ltd`    |
| Testing       | `Philip Pratt`  |
| Project Management | `Stefano Zammattio` |
| Technical Reference Manual | `Crosbie Fitch` `Philip Pratt` |
| Tutorial & Installation Guides | `Robbie McQuaid` | 
| Marketing | `Paul Ayscough` `Mitra Faulkner` |
| Sales | `Edwin Masterson` |
| Artwork| `Michel Bowes` |
| Technical Support | `Neela Dass` `Tony Roberts` `John Gay` `Jon Wolff` |
| With Thanks to | `Pete Warnes` `Mike Day` `Tim Gummer` `Vinay Gupta` `Marcia Petterson` `Jez San` | 

(From the 1996 Technical Reference Manual. More names will be added if they are uncovered)

The open sourcing of this version was done by Scott Hanselman and Foone Turing, with help from an anonymous contributor. 

## License

This is released under the MIT license.


Copyright (c) 1995 Argonaut Software Limited 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
